# 20SilverDragons
A custom deck builder card game

20 Silver Dragons is a personal project that I have been working on for the past 2-3 years intermittently. It is similar in concept to popular deck builder games such as Magic the Gathering, Yu-Gi-Oh!, Heartthsone, and Legends of Runeterra. I am incredibly proud of of this project and am happy to say that I play this on occasion with my friends. The game focuses on a turn-based system that utilizes "fake money" to impact the game by either healing yourself or keeping cards in your hand. Rules are explained more in-depth in the attached 20 Silver Dragons.docx and Card Rules.docx, however please note that the rules for this game are always changing and will likely be different in a year. This game is not perfect as I am not a professional game balancer, but I have done my best to provide a fair gaming experience.

When I first set out to create my own card game, it was because a friend had sent me homebrewed Magic the Gathering cards that were based around characters in a Dungeons & Dragons game I was playing in. I wanted to make a card game that elements from my fantasy setting, having heroes and well known figures portrayed on the cards. Additionally, I also wanted it to be a game played within the setting, a game where players could say "DM, I want to play 20 Silver Dragons for money at the local tavern". So I began my initial steps to creating the game. I identified concepts that I wanted in my game, such as a resource to play cards, the format of the cards, and also the ability to "play for money" (gambling). With a brief framework in mind, I began drafting up my first set of 35 cards using Google Sheets to fill in the cells with color and text to make a visual for the cards. I spent the next several days researching how to actually make this game playable, which required a way to create card assets and a way to play them. I settled on a third-party application called nanDeck that uses a visual editor to fine-tune the visuals of the cards, and a Steam game known as Tabletop Simulator so that I could import the cards made with nanDeck and play them with friends to playtest the material. After several years of playtesting, the creation of 200+ unique cards, the rules on how to play this game have changed several times over. I started tracking changes after about a year or so of work, which can be reviewed in Patch Notes.docx. 

Although not inherently code-heavy, this project has taught me a variety of valuable skills. Through the iterative design process, I’ve developed a sense of understanding for game design and balancing, ensuring that each card and mechanic contributes to a fair and engaging experience. Project management has been helpful in organizing and tracking the progress of this game, from the initial concept to the creation of over 200 playable cards. Analyzing feedback from playtesting sessions has helped my ability to improve on designs based on user input. My research and problem-solving skills were essential in finding the right tools and methods to bring the game to life, such as learning how to use nanDeck and Tabletop Simulator for card creation and playtesting. Additionally, documenting changes through patch notes has improved my ability to maintain records of the development process. Overall, "20 Silver Dragons" has been an amazing learning experience that has assisted me in developing the tools and knowledge to tackle future projects.
